[RDI] Add RDI 1.18.0 release notes (#3093)
redis/docs: content/integrate/redis-data-integration/release-notes/rdi-1-18-0.md

---
Title: Redis Data Integration release notes 1.18.0 (April 2026)
alwaysopen: false
categories:
- docs
- operate
- rs
description: |

>   Snowflake source support for Helm installations, including multi-schema capture and system truststore support.

Reviewer: Preview for Snowlfake source support for Helm installations, including multi-schema capture and system truststore support.  Please note that our regular preview terms apply.

>   New API v2 DLQ inspection, flush-target, and CDC-readiness validation endpoints.

Reviewer: New API v2 endpoints for DLQ inspection, flushing the target database, and CDC-readiness validation.

  Better deployment reliability, new validation and resource controls, and security refreshes across core images.
linkTitle: 1.18.0 (April 2026)
toc: 'true'
weight: 971
---

> RDI's mission is to help Redis customers sync Redis Enterprise with live data from their slow disk-based databases to:

Reviewer: I really wonder why we need this, I have commented this before. people don't come here to read what RDI is

Reviewer 2: +1, not sure why this is copied to every changelog

- Meet the required speed and scale of read queries and provide an excellent and predictable user experience.
- Save resources and time when building pipelines and coding data transformations.
- Reduce the total cost of ownership by saving money on expensive database read replicas.

RDI keeps the Redis cache up to date with changes in the primary database, using a [_Change Data Capture (CDC)_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) mechanism.
It also lets you _transform_ the data from relational tables into convenient and fast data structures that match your app's requirements. You specify the transformations using a configuration system, so no coding is required.

## What's New in 1.18.0

> ### Breaking Changes

Reviewer: breaking changes should follow semver

- **`rdi-metrics-exporter` moved to the data plane**: The `rdi-metrics-exporter` is now deployed by the pipeline Helm chart (managed by the operator) instead of the main RDI Helm chart. Helm values previously under the top-level `rdiMetricsExporter:` block must be moved under `operator.dataPlane.metricsExporter:` in your custom values file. During the upgrade, there will be a brief (seconds) gap in Prometheus scraping that does not affect the data path. The exporter is not deployed for Flink-based pipelines.

### Snowflake and Source Integration

> - **Snowflake source support for Helm installations**: RDI now supports Snowflake as a source in Helm-based installations, including capture from multiple schemas in a single pipeline. Snowflake sources are not yet supported for VM installations. RDI can also use well-known root CA certificates from the system truststore, reducing the need for manual certificate configuration for cloud-hosted source databases.

Reviewer: preview

---

RDI's mission is to help Redis customers sync Redis Enterprise with live data from their slow disk-based databases to:

- Meet the required speed and scale of read queries and provide an excellent and predictable user experience.
- Save resources and time when building pipelines and coding data transformations.
- Reduce the total cost of ownership by saving money on expensive database read replicas.

RDI keeps the Redis cache up to date with changes in the primary database, using a [_Change Data Capture (CDC)_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) mechanism.
It also lets you _transform_ the data from relational tables into convenient and fast data structures that match your app's requirements. You specify the transformations using a configuration system, so no coding is required.

## What's New in 1.18.0

No breaking changes are called out in this release.

### Snowflake and Source Integration

- **Snowflake source support for Helm installations**: RDI now supports Snowflake as a source in Helm-based installations. Status, state, and component health are now reported correctly for Snowflake sources. Snowflake sources are not yet supported for VM installations.

> - **Snowflake multi-schema capture**: In Helm-based installations, Snowflake sources can now capture from multiple schemas in a single pipeline.

Reviewer 3: Combine with previous note; Snowflake is net-new.

Reviewer 4: +1

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: combined the Snowflake notes so the release note presents Snowflake support as net-new and includes multi-schema capture in the same bullet.

  New API v2 DLQ inspection and flush-target endpoints, plus automated TypeScript SDK generation.
  Better deployment reliability, new validation and resource controls, and security refreshes across core images.
linkTitle: 1.18.0 (April 2026)
toc: 'true'
weight: 971
---

RDI's mission is to help Redis customers sync Redis Enterprise with live data from their slow disk-based databases to:

- Meet the required speed and scale of read queries and provide an excellent and predictable user experience.
- Save resources and time when building pipelines and coding data transformations.
- Reduce the total cost of ownership by saving money on expensive database read replicas.

RDI keeps the Redis cache up to date with changes in the primary database, using a [_Change Data Capture (CDC)_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Change_data_capture) mechanism.
It also lets you _transform_ the data from relational tables into convenient and fast data structures that match your app's requirements. You specify the transformations using a configuration system, so no coding is required.

## What's New in 1.18.0

### Breaking Changes

> - **`rdi-metrics-exporter` moved to the data plane**: The `rdi-metrics-exporter` is now deployed by the pipeline Helm chart (managed by the operator) instead of the main RDI Helm chart, and is only rendered when `processors.type` is `classic`. Helm values previously under the top-level `rdiMetricsExporter:` block must be moved under `operator.dataPlane.metricsExporter:` in your custom values file. During the upgrade, Helm deletes the control-plane copy of the exporter resources before the operator recreates them under the pipeline release, resulting in a brief (seconds) gap in Prometheus scraping that does not affect the data path. ([RDSC-5004](https://redislabs.atlassian.net/browse/RDSC-5004))

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **`rdi-metrics-exporter` moved to the data plane**: The `rdi-metrics-exporter` is now deployed by the pipeline Helm chart (managed by the operator) instead of the main RDI Helm chart, and is only rendered when `processors.type` is `classic` (the default). Helm values previously under the top-level `rdiMetricsExporter:` block must be moved under `operator.dataPlane.metricsExporter:` in your custom values file. During the upgrade, there will be a brief (seconds) gap in Prometheus scraping that does not affect the data path.
```
I guess we don't want references to internal Jira tickets in the release notes.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: removed the internal Jira reference, removed processors.type, shortened the upgrade wording, and kept only the Prometheus scrape gap plus Flink-based pipeline note.

> - **`rdi-metrics-exporter` moved to the data plane**: The `rdi-metrics-exporter` is now deployed by the pipeline Helm chart (managed by the operator) instead of the main RDI Helm chart, and is only rendered when `processors.type` is `classic`. Helm values previously under the top-level `rdiMetricsExporter:` block must be moved under `operator.dataPlane.metricsExporter:` in your custom values file. During the upgrade, Helm deletes the control-plane copy of the exporter resources before the operator recreates them under the pipeline release, resulting in a brief (seconds) gap in Prometheus scraping that does not affect the data path. ([RDSC-5004](https://redislabs.atlassian.net/browse/RDSC-5004))

Reviewer 2: Do we even expose setting the processor type to users already? I see it in the docs, but is it explained somewhere (including the helm values)?
The docs also say it's an enum with only the values `classic` 😅 https://redis.io/docs/latest/integrate/redis-data-integration/reference/config-yaml-reference/#processors-data-processing-configuration

If it's not (fully) exposed to customers yet, I would leave out the sentence mentioning processors.type, and maybe replace it with a note at the end that metrics-exporter is not required and not deployed for the upcoming Flink processor.

Author: Well technically the users are able to switch to the Flink processor, it's just not the default yet.
We synced with Pieter that we should try to push the Flink processor for testing by our on-prem customers, ideally to hit issues there during testing/QA before the new customers on the Cloud.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: removed processors.type entirely and framed the behavior as the exporter not being deployed for Flink-based pipelines.

### Snowflake and Source Integration

> - **Snowflake source support for Helm installations**: RDI now supports Snowflake as a source in Helm-based installations. Status, state, and component health are now reported correctly for Snowflake sources. Snowflake sources are not yet supported for VM installations.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Snowflake source support for Helm installations**: RDI now supports Snowflake as a source in Helm-based installations. Status and component health are reported correctly for Snowflake sources. Snowflake sources are not yet supported for VM installations.
```

Reviewer 2: Are there aspects that are not working correctly or are not reported correctly? If not, I wouldn't call out status and component health reporting. When reading "Snowflake support added", I expect that everything is working correctly. When reading "this aspect is working correctly", I start wondering which other aspects aren't.

It's different of course if it's a bug fix, but here we're adding support for a new source.

Author: Yeah I agree, I'll reword it.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: removed the status/component-health wording and kept this as a net-new Snowflake source support note.

- **Snowflake multi-schema capture**: In Helm-based installations, Snowflake sources can now capture from multiple schemas in a single pipeline.
- **System truststore support**: RDI can optionally use well-known root CA certificates from the system truststore, reducing the need for manual certificate configuration for cloud-hosted source databases.
- **Collector resource reservation controls**: A new `sources.advanced.resources` section lets you control memory and CPU reservation for the collector.

> - **CDC-readiness validation in API v2**: RDI API v2 can optionally validate whether a source database is ready for CDC as part of pipeline validation. This is available on pipeline create, update, and patch requests by using the `validate_cdc` query parameter, including dry-run requests. If validation fails, the API returns validation errors instead of applying the change. Coverage is still limited in this release and will expand over time.

Reviewer 4: * Instead of "coverage is still limited", perhaps we should mention which source databases are actually covered?
* Since this is for now just an API change, should we mention that clients (CLI, Redis Insight) are not yet able to use this, to avoid wrong expectations?

Author: CLI - not able, yes. Redis Insight is not able, because it's not yet implemented. Yeah, worth mentioning.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: listed supported CDC validation sources explicitly: MariaDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, and MongoDB. Also called out that Spanner/Snowflake are not supported and that this is API v2 only, not CLI or Redis Insight.

### RDI API and SDK

- **DLQ inspection endpoints in API v2**: RDI API v2 now exposes endpoints to inspect Dead Letter Queue (DLQ) data programmatically:
  - `GET /api/v2/pipelines/{name}/dlqs` lists tables that currently have DLQ records with their counts.
  - `GET /api/v2/pipelines/{name}/dlqs/{full_table_name}` returns the DLQ count for a specific table.
  - `GET /api/v2/pipelines/{name}/dlqs/{full_table_name}/records` returns DLQ records for a specific table with pagination, sort order control, and optional field projection.
- **Flush target endpoint in API v2**: Added `POST /api/v2/pipelines/{name}/flush-target/{target_name}` so you can flush a target Redis database through the API.

> - **Automated TypeScript SDK generation**: RDI now supports automated generation of the TypeScript SDK from the latest OpenAPI definition, helping keep the SDK aligned with the API.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
I would remove this and other mentions of the SDK. The SDK is not yet exposed to customers I believe, and exposing it would be a major product decision.

Author: Yes, it is still private.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: removed the TypeScript SDK bullet and renamed the section to RDI API.

### Operations and Reliability

> - **Optional AOF prerequisite check disablement**: A new `operator.prerequisiteChecks` section in the Helm values file lets you disable the AOF prerequisite check when the RDI database does not have AOF enabled. Use this carefully, because disabling the check can lead to data loss in some failure scenarios. For example:

Reviewer 2: Do we follow a convention for the point of view used in release notes text? Here, we are addressing the reader directly ("Use this carefully..."). I prefer a third-person neutral approach for release notes: "AOF should only be disabled after careful consideration, as it can lead to data loss in some failure scenarios".

Maybe it's worth it to decide on the style we want to follow and then make sure we stick to it.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: changed the AOF wording to a neutral third-person style and moved the detailed Helm values example to the FAQ.

  ```yaml
  # prerequisiteChecks:
    # Set to `false` to allow RDI deployment without AOF persistence on the RDI Redis database.
    # Note: Disabling AOF persistence means data durability is not ensured across full cluster outages.
    # This may affect streamed data, deployed configurations, and offsets.
    # This option should only be used in environments where disk persistence cannot be enabled due to policy constraints.
    # Defaults to `true` for backward compatibility and data durability.
    # aofRequired: true

>   ```

Reviewer 4: This looks way too verbose, I would remove or shorten it.

Reviewer 2: +1, I don't think this needs to be in the release notes at all. This block with the verbose description will be in the values file anyway

Author: Okay, I added it explicitly as I thought it's useful in release notes. In such case I need to see where to add this if not added already.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: shortened the release note and moved the Helm values example to the FAQ persistence section instead of keeping the verbose block here.

> - **More reliable deploy task completion**: Fixed an issue where the operator could mark a deploy task as completed before the new pipeline was fully deployed, which could lead to incorrect pipeline status reporting.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **More reliable deploy task completion**: Fixed an issue where the operator could mark a deploy task as completed before the new pipeline was fully deployed, which could lead to incorrect pipeline status reporting.
- **Fewer pipeline component restarts**: Fixed an issue where deploying a changed pipeline configuration would cause pipeline components that were not affected by the change to be restarted as well.
```
Something I forgot to add when it was introduced that deserves a bullet IMO.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: added the separate bullet for fewer pipeline component restarts.

> - **Safer collector property handling**: Fixed a `NullPointerException` in the collector API when intercepted connection property maps contained null values or resolved to null. Null maps are now rejected earlier with a clear error instead of failing later in the pipeline.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Safer collector API property handling**: Fixed a `NullPointerException` in the collector API when connection property maps contained null values or resolved to null. Such cases are now rejected with a clear error.
```

Reviewer 2: In addition, I wouldn't mention `NullPointerException` and instead just say "an issue" or "an exception" or "a bug"

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: shortened the collector API note and removed the NullPointerException wording.

> - **Reloader image configuration for Helm installations**: The Helm chart's bundled Reloader controller, which watches ConfigMaps and Secrets and triggers rolling upgrades when they change, now defaults to `docker.io/redis/reloader` and can be configured explicitly with `reloader.reloader.deployment.image.name`. This fixes a gap where the Reloader image could still default to `ghcr.io/stakater/reloader` instead of following the Redis-hosted image convention used elsewhere in the chart. This is especially useful for private-registry and mirrored-image deployments, where users previously had to edit the `rdi-reloader` Deployment manually after installation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Reloader image configuration for Helm installations**: The Helm chart's bundled Reloader controller, which watches ConfigMaps and Secrets and triggers rolling upgrades when they change, now defaults to `docker.io/redis/reloader` and can be configured explicitly with `reloader.reloader.deployment.image.name`. This is especially useful for private-registry and mirrored-image deployments.
```
Shortened, lower level details omitted.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: shortened the Reloader note and removed the lower-level fallback/default detail.

### Security Updates

> - **Security refresh across operator, collector API, and Fluentd images**: Refreshed dependencies and base packages to reduce Critical and High findings in the operator, collector API, and Fluentd images.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Security updates across RDI images**: Updated dependencies and base packages to remove Critical and High CVEs in RDI images.
```
Shortened, generalized, better terminology.

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: replaced this with a shorter consolidated security bullet using RDI image terminology.

> - **Dependency upgrades for CVE remediation**: Updated key dependencies including Spring Boot, Spring Framework, Spring Security, Netty, Kafka clients, MySQL Connector/J, containerd, `golang.org/x/crypto`, and Stakater Reloader.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```
Duplicate with the above, except for the Reloader, which could be mentioned in the above bullet as well by "Updated third-party images, dependencies, and base packages ..."

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: removed the duplicate dependency-upgrade bullet and folded third-party images/dependencies/base packages into the consolidated security bullet.

## Limitations

> RDI can write data to a Redis Active-Active database. However, it doesn't support writing data to two or more Active-Active replicas. Writing data from RDI to several Active-Active replicas could easily harm data integrity as RDI is not synchronous with the source database commits.

Reviewer 4: Do we need this, looks like a leftover from previous Release Notes?

Author: Ah yes, it's a copy-paste thing. thanks

Author: Addressed in bb7b28565: removed the copied Limitations section from these release notes.
